# Ethical Consumption Before Capitalism:  A Data+ Project Concerning the Modernization and Analysis of Early Modern English Texts

## Team

### Authors

> Abhishek Devarajan
>
> Aimi Wen
>
> Serena Ivery
>
> Shuba Prasadh

### Project Leads

> Dr. Astrid Giuni
>
> Dr. Jessica Hines

### Project Manager

> Emma Davenport

##Website Link for more details 
https://sites.google.com/view/ethical-consumption-before-cap/home 

## Background

Hi Everybody! We are project 22 from Data+, the study of Ethical Consumption before Capitalism. 
What does ethical consumption entail? Today, it often means making purchases that involve more environmentally-friendly materials and are generated by laborers who work under fair conditions. But how was the concept of ethical consumption different during the Early Modern period in pre-capitalist Europe?

## Project Parameters

The objective of this project is to analyze the relationship between consumption and ethics. We used philosophical and religious understandings of ethics to analyze specific consumption items: gold, silver, tobacco, beer, and wool. Our dataset comes from Early English Books Online (EEBO). The final dataset we performed our analysis on came out to be over 10 thousand texts and covers the years 1580-1630.  

## Methods
1. Text Cleaning 
2. Text Filtering through Topic Modeling 
3. Sentiment Analysis 
4. Cosine Similarity 

### 1. Text Cleaning

> 1.1 Converting from SGML/XML to CSV

All of the EEBO-TCP texts are stored in SGML/XML format. In order to use these texts as inputs in our word embedding models, we need to extract the relevant information from each EEBO file. Following the extraction process, we must clean the text of any unwanted characters (e.g. punctuation, non-latin alphabet characters, html/xml tags, etc.), and then store the cleaned texts in csv files.

> 1.2 Spelling Normalization with VARD


### 2. Topic Modelling


### 3. Word Embedding Models



## Results



